---
layout: project
permalink: /:title/
category: projects

meta:
  keywords: "Hydrogen Generation, Test Chamber, Experimentation"

project:
  title: "Hydrogen Test Chamber"
  type: "Undergraduate Research Studies Program"
  logo: "/assets/images/projects/transparentreactor/icon.jpg"
  overview: "The transparent reactor was a device designed to watch hydrogen generating aluminum-water reactions to better understand the reaction when pressurized."

agency:
  year: "2021"

images:
  - image:
    url: "/assets/images/projects/transparentreactor/sample-tall.png"
    alt: "Timestamps from an experiment"
  - image:
    url: "/assets/images/projects/transparentreactor/IMG_6310.JPG"
    alt: "The short reactor at the end of an experiment"
  - image:
    url: "/assets/images/projects/transparentreactor/reactor-tall.jpg"
    alt: "The tall reactor at the start of an experiment"


---
<p> It's difficult to keep enough energy on board for long-distance marine vehicles, especially for those unmanned or submerged. One potential solution is using aluminum, which is extremely energy dense, and can react with water to form hydrogen. By using aluminum fuel pellets to react with seawater, hydrogen to power the vessel can be created with minumum fuel to carry on board. This type of fuel is still being researched, and a critical issue arose for deep sea applications when researchers found that aluminum pellets did not fully react with water when the system was pressurized. </p>

<p> I built a transparent reactor chamber so the team could watch the reaction, collecting video, pressure, and tempreature data. Different lengths of transparent tube could be used in the chamber to run both high and low pressure experiments. This project was a bit outside my comfort zone as I'm accustomed to mechanical design rather than chemistry, but I gained experience in data analysis and conducting experiments. Interestingly, I discovered the reaction was failing due to a mechanical issue rather than a chemical one. The pressure held the aluminum pellets together, so once the outer layer finished reacting, the process stopped. </p>
