---
layout: project
permalink: /:title/
category: projects

meta:
  keywords: "Oystermaran, Flippy, USV, Aquaculture"

project:
  title: "Oystermaran USV"
  type: "Master's Thesis"
  logo: "/assets/images/projects/flippy/icon.jpg"
  overview: "For my master's thesis at MIT, I completely designed, built, and tested every mechanical system on the Oystermaran V2, an unmanned surface vessel (USV) developed for high-density oyster farming."

agency:
  year: "2024"

images:
  - image:
    url: "/assets/images/projects/flippy/field.jpg"
    alt: "Flippy inside of an oyster field"
  - image:
    url: "/assets/images/projects/flippy/flippy2-cad.png"
    alt: "Whole vehicle CAD"
  - image:
    url: "/assets/images/projects/flippy/labflip.jpg"
    alt: "Flippy inside of lab holding an oyster basket"
  - image:
    url: "/assets/images/projects/flippy/nose.png"
    alt: "Close-up of the nose switching mechanism"
---
<p>In space-limited areas, such as New England where MIT is located, most aquaculture work is still done manaully. Oysters are a major product and are grown in mesh bags at the water's surface and manually flipped by workers leaning out of kayaks every 1-2 weeks to aid in their growth - and the bags can reach almost 30kg (60lbs)</p>

<p> Dubbed "Flippy" for its ability to flip over the oyster baskets, the Oystermaran is a catamaran-style USV built to work with existing farm setups, making it easier for farmers to adopt. Flippy II was built to improve manueverability, increase flipping mechanism capability, and create a test platform the team can continue to use while bringing the device closer to market </p>

<p> I calculated, designed, built, and tested every mechanical component on Flippy II. This included custom hulls with interchangeable bows to determine the best geometry on-site and insets for all mechanisms to prevent vehicle snagging on the farm, reducing the need for fine manual control. To flip baskets, I designed three mechanisms which work together. First, "claws" made of custom linkages grab the target basket sugly. A 200Nm arm with spring assists lifts the basket out of the water. Finally, a belt-driving pushing beam ensures a successful flip and redistributes the oysters inside of the basket. </p>

<p> My team tested the vehicle in the lab, the pool, and at the oyster farm. The final design proved to be a complete mechanical platform capable of flipping baskets which the team can continue to work with and optimize. To read more, my master's thesis is avaliable at <a class="underline" href="https://dspace.mit.edu/handle/1721.1/155892" target="_blank"> MIT DSpace, </a> and the initial hull design was presented at <a class="underline" href="https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/10244581" target="_blank"> Oceans 2023. </a> </p>
